---
date: 2021-11-08T16:04
tags: 
  - meeting
  - meeting/biweekly
---

# 2021-11-08 Biweekly

Last meeting: [[2021-10-25-biweekly]]

## News

### Dev attendence

- Once again we will have to divide our time between Wharf and another project.
  Progress slow-down expected.

### Auth

- @fredx30: Feature works, but rough.
  Notable problems include:
  - Requirement of RxJS 6, instead of 7.
  - Module loading where auth is disabled works poorly or not at all.
    - No config capabilities.

  Considering moving wharf-web to use Angular Universal instead of
  statically-compiled Angular, partially to make usage of environmental
  variables simpler (not requiring rebuilding when changing config variables).

### CD - Starts after (Auth / Jenkins removal / wharf-api refactor )

We have considered the benefits of having a continuous deployment system in Wharf.
We believe that we could benefit from shortening the feedback loop by enabling quicker
collaborative access to a deployment of the latest Wharf code.

Potential automated solution [Webhook relay](https://webhookrelay.com/)
  - Tag PRs that you want to be merged into the development branch, that will be available for testing
    at the press of a button.

Here are some thoughts from a previous internal meeting:

> 1. A potential branch named "Development". This branch would have a manual wharf
>   trigger to build docker image artifacts that would get automatically pushed to
>   harbor (local kubecluster?) and then automatically deployed to the triggering
>   (self) wharf instance.
> 
>   - Problems
>     - Lackluster automation options investigate possibilities of
>       - Scheduling deployments
>       - Reoccuring deployments
>       - Webhooked deployments (already exists right? - problems with respect to traversal of protected networks)
> 
> 2. Development branch would not be protected such that wharf-devs could forcepush
>   and change history on the branch. If this were to be broken then a reset would
>   simply be done through "git reset --hard origin/master && git push --force-with-lease" on the
>   development branch.

Action points
1. Build configuration in Wharf that builds and deploys to stage on all container-based repos.
2. Automate dev branch push &rarr; webhook relay &rarr; build &rarr; deploy.
3. Automate PR labelled with "development" &rarr; push to dev branch
4. ...?
5. Fika!

### wharf-web

v1.5.0 on the horizon!
- Bug fixes.
- Visual glitches.

### wharf-docker-compose

- @fredx30: Merge [enforce startup order PR](https://github.com/iver-wharf/wharf-docker-compose/pull/7).

- @fredx30: Update environment variables.
  - to WHARF_XXX_XXX

### wharf-api

- @jilleJr: Continue wharf-api refactor.

### Architecture

- @jilleJr: Meeting [[2021-11-02-wharf-cmd-provisioning]] for replacing Jenkins. Hella progress.

### Remote project IDs

- @Alexamakans: Proof of concept went well. Increasing scope to abstract logic under providers
  instead of Wharf API.

## Plan

// TODO

- @jilleJr: Book meeting on "add nightly automatic releases based on `master`
  branch". Forgot to do this last week.

- @jilleJr: Continue work on wharf-api's RFC-0016 milestone

- @jilleJr: Continue work on adding third-party license attribution to wharf-web.

- @jilleJr: Try plan out Jenkins deprecation. Pick up that train of thought again.

- @fredx30: Continue work on auth implementation.

- @\*: Review PRs.

- @\*: Less time spent on Wharf due to new time delegations for other
  (non-Wharf) projects.
