---
date: 2022-01-03T16:00
tags:
  - meeting
  - meeting/biweekly
---

# 2022-01-03 Biweekly

Last meeting: [[2021-11-22-biweekly]]

## News

### Dev attendance

- @\*: Busy with other projects. Cannot tell percentage, but on average at least
  below 50% among all 3 devs.

### wharf-api-client-go and providers

- @Alexamakans: Work on supporting wharf-api v5.0.0 is going well and almost
  finished, updating as wharf-api v5.0.0 gets new changes.

### wharf-web

- @Alexamakans: Test details going well, waiting for wharf-api v5.0.0 release.

- @jilleJr: Bug fixes.
 
### wharf-api

- @Alexamakans: Work on "remote project IDs" are on hold while waiting for
  wharf-api v5.0.0 release.

- @\*: v5.0.0 is soon ready to be released. Waiting for
  [RFC-0026](https://github.com/iver-wharf/rfcs/pull/26).

### wharf-providers

- @Alexamakans: Work on "remote project IDs" are on hold while waiting for
  wharf-api v5.0.0 release.

### Authentication

- @fredx30: Performing E2E tests via canary builds. Still in progress.

### wharf-cmd

- @jilleJr: [RFC-0025](https://github.com/iver-wharf/rfcs/pull/25) has been
  approved. Will merge and start implementing during this sprint.

### CD

- @jilleJr: Canary builds towards an internal Wharf instance are working.

## Plan

- @jilleJr: Merge wharf-cmd provisioning RFC and start work.

- @fredx30: Evaluate what's left for finalizing auth v1. Check with customers
  how this suits their expectations. @jilleJr can help. Let's contact William to
  get help establishing the us->customer communication. Need to flesh out the
  "feature requirements". @jilleJr books meeting.

- @Alexamakans: Continue work on supporting wharf-api v5.0.0.

- @Alexamakans: Check if possible to merge test details changes in wharf-web.

- @Alexamakans: Check if possible to merge remote project ID changes.

- @Alexamakans: Find new tasks to do from issues.

- @\*: Review PRs.

- @\*: Less time spent on Wharf due to new time delegations for other
  (non-Wharf) projects.
