---
date: 2021-04-12T14:45
---

# RFC presentation

> Based on the research found over at [[rfc-driven-development]]#.

## Key points

- Code reviews improve code quality, RFC improve design quality.

- Document design process, instead of writing inside WO notes/ticket
  descriptions

- Less overhead when it comes to code reviews

- More overhead when it comes to designing. Forces us to think before we code.

- Not to be used every time. It's a tool for bigger tasks.

- FOSS friendly. Not just for Iver employees that may author and review designs.

- Drawbacks

  - Takes time
  - Endless discussion
  - Incompatible with SCRUM
  - Unclear what needs RFC
  - RFC and actual implementation may differ
  - Some RFC reviews are faster than other, leading to bottlenecks
  - RFC implementation status (is it in progress/completed/pending?)
  - Fear of discussions you don't grasp
  - Licensing RFCs

- What is needed to start writing RFCs?

  - RFC template
  - Somewhere to store them
  - Someway to read them
  - Someway to review them

- Specs for hosting your own

  - Autogenerated list of all RFCs
  - Autogenerated search
  - Linking to each RFCs implementation issue/ticket
  - Showing status of each RFCs implementation
  
- RFC template

  - We want simple yet effective. As with issue templates, the size of it should
    correlate with the size of the project. Wharf is not a big project, while
    for example Rust is.
    
    See examples from [[concrete-rfc-usage]]#.

## Manuscript
  
- What are RFCs

  - For internet standards:
    - Documentation of standards
    - Spec sheets

  - Documented design decisions
  - Invitation to discuss design (literatly "Request for comments")
  
- What does their RFCs look like?

  - HTTP/1.0 <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1945>

  - C# 10.0, File scoped namespaces
    <https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/blob/main/proposals/csharp-10.0/file-scoped-namespaces.md>

- IETF or open source, they still share some things:

  - Written in ink. Once written, they are not changed. Outdated maybe, but
    never altered.
    
  - Reviewed before considered "published".
  
  - Nothing without an implementation.

- RFC mythbusting

  - Only for IETF (nope anyone can do it)
  - Only for writing standards or language specs (nope they're design documents)
  - RFCs are specs (nah just suggestions)
  - RFCs are super complicated and tedious (nah they're just writing down the design chats we already sometimes have)
  - RFCs will lead to a lot of reading and writing of natural language (actually yes, but get used to it!)
  - Scares pot. contrib. away (can if done poorly, just like with GitHub Issues)

- Benefits of Code reviews

  - Make code cleaner:

    - Code authors tries to evade future nitpicks
    - Naming strategies/conventions are shared and complied with
    - Code design patterns gets preferred
    
  - Knowledge transfer

- Cons of not using RFCs

  - design discussions during code reviews
  - not that many "high level" discussions

- Existing RFC adoptations (See [[rfcs-in-the-wild]]#)

  - IETF's usage of RFCs
  - Other's usage of RFCs: Rust, Swift, .NET, React.js, ...
  
- RFC structure (See [[concrete-rfc-usage]]#)

  - Metadata
  - Summary/introduction/description
  - Motivation/why we need this
  - Explanation as docs, as if it was already implemented
  - Implementation suggestion, detailed
  - Compatibility
  - Drawbacks
  - Alternatives
  - Unresolved questions
  - Future possibilities
  - Acknowledgments/don't sue us plz

- RFC lifecycle

  - write it (who? where? when?)
  - review it (how many reviewers?)
  - finalize or postpone it (who sets the deadline?) 
  
- Demo: Look at creating a RFC for Rust

- What is needed to start writing RFCS?

  - Base requirements
  - Other's bars (quote from Rust's "lightweight" note)
  - Our bar

- Suggested procedure: GitHub Pages + Jekyll (just-the-docs)

  - GitHub

    - GitHub pages + Jekyll
    - Pull requests + reviews
    - Issues for implementations

  - Demo: <https://github.com/jilleJr/gh-pages-test>
  
    - Overall setup w/ search & RFC list
    - RFC-0001
    - Issue #1
    - PR #2
  
- Issues with RFCs (See [[issues-with-rfcs]]#)

  - Takes time
  - Endless discussions
  - Incompatible with Scrum
  - Unclear what needs RFC
  - RFC and actual implementation may differ
  - Some RFC reviews are faster than others
  - Fear of discussions you don't grasp
  - Licensing RFCs

- Benefits of RFCs (See [[rfc-driven-development]]#)

  - Enforce thinking before coding
  - Open discussion, ANYONE can participate
  - Potentially more perspectives (from QAs, testers, DBAs, architects)
  - Increased feeling of responsability
  - Fewer *"Why wasen't I consulted about X?"* questions
  - Only participate at the right level of abstraction that suits you

- Closing words

